Conceptual
1. For each of parts (a) through (d), indicate whether we would generally expect the performance of a flexible statistical learning method to be
better or worse than an inflexible method. Justify your answer.
(a) The sample size n is extremely large, and the number of predictors p is small.
    Flexible method would perform better since the large amount of data would prevent overfitting.

(b) The number of predictors p is extremely large, and the number of observations n is small.
    An inflexible method would perform better. A large number of p means that there will be a higher degree of freedom. A larger and flexible model would
    most likely overfit. 

(c) The relationship between the predictors and response is highly non-linear.
    Flexible statistical learning method because it is not linear so that means that the relationship between the predictors and response is more complicated.

(d) The variance of the error terms, i.e. σ2 = Var(ϵ), is extremely high.
    We would expect an inflexible method to perform better. A high variance in error term means that there is high noise.
    An inflexible method would ignore the noise. 

NOTES:
* this is bias variance trade-off
* inflexible methods:
    - high bias (strong assumptions like linearity)
    - low variance (model doesn't change if you change the training data)
    - simple and less likely to overfit
* flexible methods:
    - low bias (fit into many different shapes)
    - high variance
    - compelx and easily overfit


2. Explain whether each scenario is a classification or regression problem, and indicate whether we are most interested in inference or prediction. 
Finally, provide n (observations) and p (predictors).
(a) We collect a set of data on the top 500 firms in the US. For each
firm we record profit, number of employees, industry and the
CEO salary. We are interested in understanding which factors
affect CEO salary.
Regression; we are most interested in inference since we want to understand which factors affect the CEO salary. 
n = CEO salary = 500, p = profit, number of employees, industry = 3

(b) We are considering launching a new product and wish to know
whether it will be a success or a failure. We collect data on 20
similar products that were previously launched. For each prod-
uct we have recorded whether it was a success or failure, price
charged for the product, marketing budget, competition price,
and ten other variables.
Classification; we are interested in prediction. n = success/falure = , p = price, marketing budget, competition price, and 10 other vars

(c) We are interested in predicting the % change in the USD/Euro
exchange rate in relation to the weekly changes in the world
stock markets. Hence we collect weekly data for all of 2012. For
each week we record the % change in the USD/Euro, the %
change in the US market, the % change in the British market,
and the % change in the German market.
Regression; we are interested in prediction. n = % change in the USD/Euro exchange rates, p = %change in the US market, British market, and German market. 


3. We now revisit the bias-variance decomposition.
(a) Provide a sketch of typical (squared) bias, variance, training er-
ror, test error, and Bayes (or irreducible) error curves, on a sin-
gle plot, as we go from less flexible statistical learning methods
towards more flexible approaches. The x-axis should represent
the amount of flexibility in the method, and the y-axis should
represent the values for each curve. There should be five curves.
Make sure to label each one.

(b) Explain why each of the five curves has the shape displayed in
part (a) 
Bias - model underfitting, not capturing the pattern of the data
Variance - model overfitting being too sensitive to data, making it unstable and unreliable
Train Error - will always go down
Test Error - will go down and then go back up because of overfitting
Bayes (irreducible) error - always stays constant



4. You will now think of some real-life applications for statistical learn-
ing.
(a) Describe three real-life applications in which classification might
be useful. Describe the response, as well as the predictors. Is the
goal of each application inference or prediction? Explain your
answer.

(b) Describe three real-life applications in which regression might
be useful. Describe the response, as well as the predictors. Is the
goal of each application inference or prediction? Explain your
answer.

(c) Describe three real-life applications in which cluster analysis
might be useful.



5. What are the advantages and disadvantages of a very flexible (versus
a less flexible) approach for regression or classification? Under what
circumstances might a more flexible approach be preferred to a less
flexible approach? When might a less flexible approach be preferred?



6. Describe the differences between a parametric and a non-parametric
statistical learning approach. What are the advantages of a para-
metric approach to regression or classification (as opposed to a non-
parametric approach)? What are its disadvantages?
Parametric is if you are concerned with the parameters of your model, non-parametric is when you are just concerned with the results.


7. The table below provides a training data set containing six observa-
tions, three predictors, and one qualitative response variable.

Obs. X1 X2 X3 Y
1 0 3 0 Red
2 2 0 0 Red
3 0 1 3 Red
4 0 1 2 Green
5−1 0 1 Green
6 1 1 1 Red

Suppose we wish to use this data set to make a prediction for Y when
X1 = X2 = X3 = 0 using K-nearest neighbors.
(a) Compute the Euclidean distance between each observation and
the test point, X1 = X2 = X3 = 0.
(b) What is our prediction with K = 1? Why?
(c) What is our prediction with K = 3? Why?
(d) If the Bayes decision boundary in this problem is highly non-
linear, then would we expect the best value for K to be large or
small? Why